After you change your subnet remember that the QNAP will stay with its old
ip address

You will not be able to access from your new subnet

let's say you have this previous ip range

192.168.0.1 - 192.168.0.255

and now you have changed your network (subnet) to

192.168.67.1 - 192.168.67.255

now your nas has remained with the old IP. You have to refresh it

in order to do that from a machine just go to your network settings and change your DHCP setting
from automatic to manual

(This solution is to not have to change back all your ip addresses. Doing this you will temporary
change the ip address of 1 pc and be able to access the old subnet. Anyways another solution is to change
all the range ips from your router and set the ip in your NAS as manual with the ip of your new subnet that
you have chosen )

in windows open setting, network, click on properties on your adapter (wifi or eth.)
then go to IP settings (Ip assignment) click on 'Edit'

click on manual
select ipv4

then put an address that is included in the old range (in this case in this range 192.168.0.1 - 192.168.0.255)
be careful to not choose an IP that is already reserved (that means that is been set as static for another device)

in 'subnet prefix lenght' just type 24
in Gateway type your NEW gateway address that is the new ip address of your router
(that in this case falls in this range: 192.168.67.1 - 192.168.67.255)

click ok.

now you can access to your NAS in the old subnet (but you will eventally not have access to internet)

now let's refresh the IP in the QNAP
access in your qnap (you can also type in your old ip address in the browser bar)

then go to 'Network & Virtual Switch'
Click on 'Virtual Switch'

click on the vertical three dots in your 'Virtual Switch setting' and click on
'Renew IP address'
done!

IF THIS NOT WORK YOU HAVE TO REBOOT YOUR NAS. When trying this your router could stuck
and it will reboot automatically. This could take some minutes...

(remember to check if you have not set up a DHCP server (it should be empty in the settings)  otherwise
it will make conflict the the router DCHP server)

now exit and go to your system setting, wifi and select DHCP automatic (redo the previous steps)

access to your router to see the new IP (under your new subnet) of your NAS!

done!

now if you have some virtualized machines you have to reboot them in order to update with the new ip address!

In your local machine in windows you have then to reboot your system to make the hostnames
work (in Mac this is not necessary. everything will update instantly)
